# Andriod

Android is a mobile operating system developed by Google, based on a modified version of the Linux kernel and other open source software and designed primarily for touchscreen mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets.Android has been the best-selling OS worldwide on smartphones since 2011 and on tablets since 2013. As of May 2017, it has over two billion monthly active users, the largest installed base of any operating system, and as of June 2018, the Google Play store features over 3.3 million apps.

It was developed by 	Google, Open Handset Alliance. Written in Java (UI), C (core), C++ and more. Initial release on September 23, 2008. The Latest release	9.0 "Pie" / August 6, 2018. It was available in	100+ languages. License of andriod is	Apache License 2.0 GNU GPL v2 for the Linux kernel modifications. Official website --	android.com

Android's default user interface is mainly based on direct manipulation, using touch inputs that loosely correspond to real-world actions, like swiping, tapping, pinching, and reverse pinching to manipulate on-screen objects, along with a virtual keyboard. Game controllers and full-size physical keyboards are supported via Bluetooth or USB.[67][68] The response to user input is designed to be immediate and provides a fluid touch interface, often using the vibration capabilities of the device to provide haptic feedback to the user. Internal hardware, such as accelerometers, gyroscopes and proximity sensors are used by some applications to respond to additional user actions, for example adjusting the screen from portrait to landscape depending on how the device is oriented,[69] or allowing the user to steer a vehicle in a racing game by rotating the device, simulating control of a steering wheel.
